Questions

1. The Last Stop Boutique is having a five-day sale. Each day, starting on Monday, the
price will drop 10% of the previous day’s price. 

For example, if the original price of a product is R20.00, the sale price on Monday 
would be R18.00 (10% less than the original price). On Tuesday the sale price would be 
R16.20 (10% less than Monday). On Wednesday the sale price would be R14.58; on 
Thursday the sale price would be R13.12; and on Friday the sale price would be R11.81. 

Develop a solution that will calculate the price of an item for each of the five days, 
given the original price. 

2. Make changes in the solution to problem 1 to set the price at wholesale when the sale
price drops below the wholesale price. Request from the user the wholesale price along with 
the original price (from question 1). 

3. Develop a solution that will calculate the average temperature, given a set of
temperatures. The number of temperatures may differ from time to time. 
(Use a sentinel value to stop the processing of the loop.) 
Test the solution with the following 10 temperatures:
78° 90°
85° 80°
87° 83°
75° 90°
86° 70°

4. Mr. Brown has given a test to his class. He would like to have the average score for
the class as well as the highest and lowest scores. Develop a solution to calculate
and print out these values. (Use a sentinel value to stop the processing of the loop.)

5. Mary Smith, a student, has borrowed R3,000 to help pay her college expenses. After
setting up a budget, R85 was the maximum monthly payment she could afford to
make on the loan. 

Develop a solution to calculate and print the interest, and the balance on the loan per 
month. Other information she would like to know is the number of years and months it 
will take to pay the loan back and the total interest she will pay during that period. 

The interest rate is 1% per month on the unpaid balance. 

6. Develop a solution to calculate a student’s grade average for 5 subjects in one semester. 
The letter grades should be entered and the grade average printed out. 

An A is equivalent to 4 grade points, a B is 3 grade points; a C is 2 grade points, 
a D is 1 grade point, and an F is zero grade points.

7. Write a solution to find the average km per litre on a car after six fillups at a garage. 
Additional data kept included the number of litres of gas at each fillup, the starting odometer 
reading, and the odometer reading at each fillup.

8. In problem 7, which loop did you use? Justify why you used that particular loop
and not one of the other two. Did you need all of the data that was collected? Why
or why not?

9. Mr. Jones, a history instructor, would like to know the percentage increase in the 
population of South Africa per decade given the first decade and the last decade. Other 
given data include the population at the beginning of each decade.
Hint: percentage = (present decade population - previous decade population) / (present population * 100)

